X: and Y:	Display mouse co-ordinates in the maze.
Exit		Exit Maze Generator.
2 Color		Save the generated maze in IFF format as a b & w brush.
Brush/Disk	This cycle gadget alternates between Brush and Disk.  The 
		state of this gadget determines how the 2 State and 16state 
		buttons operate.  When Brush is displayed, the maze will be 
		stored in the current brush.  When you exit Maze Generator,
		you'll be able to paste the brush.
		When Disk is displayed, the maze will be saved to disk as a 
		scene.  Keep in mind scenes and brushes are stored in the same 
		format and can be used interchangeably.
2 State		Convert the current maze using tile zero(0) as walkways and
		the current tile held as walls.  It is then saved to disk or the 
		current brush, dependant on the cycle gadget above.
16 State	Convert the current maze using the special 16 state algorithm.  		See AUTOMAZE mode for more information on this state.  After 		convertion, it is saved to disk as a scene or stored as the 
		current brush, dependant on the cycle gadget above. 
Define		Change the maze size.  Useful if you wish to change the
		size after entering Maze Generator.  Warning: this erases the 
		maze screen entirely!
Blocks		Draw blocks inside the maze.  Important: Esc key is used to 
		exit this mode.  If you draw the blocks with the left mouse
		button, the maze will interpret these as walls of solid tiles.  
		Right button blocks erase the blocks.  Note: there is nothing 
		preventing you from placing blocks after maze generation.
GenMaze		Generate the maze.  Click on the maze to pick the starting 
		position of the maze.  Esc aborts this mode early, then cleans
		up the display.  You may restart generation by clicking this 
		button and picking new start point.  If the new start point is
		on an already existing path, it will connect to that path.  If
		it is not on an existing path, the new pathways will not connect 
		with the old pathways at any point.

NOTE:	Maze Generator creates single exit mazes.  This means if you
	pick any two points in the maze there will be exactly one path 
	connecting them.

