Scene Size	Change the dimensions of your scene.  You can change the size
		by clicking the arrow keys or typing the value in the number
		box.  Pressing the right mouse button on the arrows will
		increase or decrease by tens.  Changes won't take affect
		unless you click the Resize button.  If the desired size
		is too big for your memory then Scene Editor simply aborts.
Tile Size	Alternate the tile sizes between 16 x 16 pixel tiles and
		32 x 32 pixel tiles.  16 x 16 pixel tiles allow more tiles on
		screen but are take more time for the scene commands to draw.
		32x32 tiles take less time to draw, but less fit on screen.
		When you select what you want the computer cuts the current
		icon screen into the appropriate sizes.  Changes won't take
		affect unless you click the Resize button.
Automaze Mode	This feature allows you to draw mazes "on the fly."
		See AUTOMAZE.  While editing, the space bar alternates this
		mode between Walls and Walkways.  
Maze Generator	Access the Maze Generator.  Scene Editor asks for TL & BR.
		(top left, bottom right) Esc cancels.
Make Stencil	Bring up STENCIL menu.  You can select a range of tiles
		that will not be affected by drawing operations.
Random		This feature allows you to select a range of icons to use
		for RANDOM mode.  
Rectangle	Draw a box of tiles on the screen using the current tile held.
Flood Fill	Fill an area with the currently held tile.
Grab Brush	Grab a section of tiles from the Map Screen.  See BRUSH below.  
Load Brush	Load a brush from disk.
Save Brush	Save the current brush to disk.
View Brush	View the brush held in memory.
		Press the left mouse button to exit.
Use Brush	Use the current brush.  When you select a tile
		the brush mode is turned off.
Init Status Bank	Reserve memory for a status bank.
Save Status	This saves the current status bank to disk.
Load Status	This loads a status bank from disk and sets up the
		appropriate values.
Erase Status	This erases the current status bank from memory.
About		View credit screen.  
Cancel		Cancels the entire Menu screen.
