use arrow keys or scroll bar to view entire text

			     WELCOME! 

Welcome to the world of the TURBO PLUS EXTENSION, a new AMOS and AMOS 
Professional high-speed extension!  This program is a feature list and a 
full working demo of the TURBO PLUS Scene Editor!


   		  -----TURBO PLUS EXTENSION-----

OVER 130 new commands!  You will see that TURBO PLUS is NOT A TOME CLONE!
TURBO PLUS covers everything from super fast map drawing (scenes in TURBO
PLUS), interrupt driven starfields, truly smooth scrolling controlled under
interrupts (up to 96 zones with one command!) and MUCH more!  There are lots
of system enhancements and speed ups - check out this list:

Faster graphics commands:
	F Plot, F Point, Boxes, Circles, all 2 to almost 6 times faster!
	Blit Clear, clear all or some bitplanes almost twice as fast! 

3D line drawing:
	set vanishing point and quickly draw lines in 3D space!

Faster Zone commands:
	Hit Spr Zone(dx,dy,n) checks to see if sprite N enters a zone, with
	offsets of dx,dy to the hotspot - shorter and faster than in AMOS. 
	Same command exists for bobs!

Fast Check commands:
	Like AMOS Zones, but allowing you to specify a range of zones to check, 
	if you don't need to check them all - much faster than AMOS!  Even
	check a particular range of zones for a sprite or bob with an offset
	to its hot spot - with just one quick command!


			PLUS MISCELLANEOUS COMMANDS!

Multi Yes/Multi No - turn off multitasking for much better screen
	synchonization.  Bobs stop 'sticking', updates are smoother.  Also
	gives your program more execution time!  Also, Amos Pri for setting
	the priority exactly!

Vbl Wait - why should you wait for line 0 to be reached with Wait Vbl?
	If you only have a display reaching down to line 240, you are wasting
	processor time (scanlines) waiting for line 0.  Use Vbl Wait to wait
	for ANY scanline and let your program run the rest of the time.
	Smoother screen synch and time saved for AMOS!

Left Click - return true if mouse button being pressed - even if
	multitasking is disabled!  Similar command exists for keyboard!

Workbench Open - reopen the Workbench after issuing Close Workbench.
	This command was conspicuously lacking in AMOS! 

Byte Hunt - search a range of memory three possible ways!  Search any area
	of memory for a RANGE of bytes.  Check for a byte, or check for first
	memory location with a byte WITHIN the specified range, or search for
	first location with a byte OUTSIDE the specified range.  Much more
	versatile than AMOS's Hunt.

Memory Fill - fill range of bytes with a string variable, repeated as many
	times as necessary.  Very useful to fill an area of memory with a range
	of values.  Using Chr$($A)+Chr$(8)+Chr$(2) would fill with A82A82A82...

Texp - extremely useful command - evaluate an expression.  If its true,
	return one value, if its false, return another.  Much more useful than
	AMOS's way of returning -1 or 0.  Have it return 20 and -4 for use in
	your algorithm, if you need those values.  Useful to return -1 and 1.

Range - return a variable adjusted to fit within a range.  Replaces:
	x=Min(highvalue,Max(var,lowvalue)) or:
	if x>highvalue then x=highvalue
	if x<lowvalue then x=lowvalue
	with one simple command

Between - return if a value is between two numbers.  Function still works
	if the two numbers are not in low/high order.

T Clip - clip a value at a certain interval.  Works with any interval,
	whether even, odd, power of 2 or not.
	Replaces: val=(val/clipint)*clipint
	with a simple command.

Bank End - return the address of the end of a bank.  Works 3 different ways,
	depending on the type of bank!

Bit operations - a whole range of commands:
	Lsl.b, Lsl.w, Lsl.l, Lsr.b, Lsr.w, Lsr.l for logical bit shifting
	L Swap, swap lower half of longword with upper
	Test.b, Test.w for testing parts of bytes
	Cpu Info & Math Info for determining CPU type
	Bit Field Extraction and insertion for datafields!

Bitplane operations for restricting drawing to certain bitplanes, shifting
	bitplanes for effects, offsetting, swapping, even rotating bitplanes!


			STARFIELD commands!

Have TURBO PLUS take all the work out of starfields!  Create a starfield
with hundreds of stars.  Give them all individual paths and speeds, and set
them flying.  Control them yourself, or under interrupts!  Your AMOS 
program can keep on running while TURBO PLUS handles a full starfield!  
Change speed and direction of stars while they are moving, even change a 
whole RANGE of them with just ONE fast command!  


			  VECTOR OBJECTS

Define 2 dimensional vector objects, draw, move, and scale them in real 
time!  Save them to disk for later reloading.  They are drawn extremely 
quickly!


			TURBO STATIC BLOCKS

Use TURBO Put Block to draw normal blocks faster than AMOS.  Or convert your 
normal AMOS linked list of blocks to a TURBO static list for an even greater 
speed up!  The more blocks, the faster - (several times faster!)


			   FASTER ICONS

Display icons at almost 4 times normal speed!  If you have a faster 
processor (A1200 or better), you can display them even faster (about 5 
times) by not using the blitter at all!
Functions are included to return the width & height of an icon, the number 
of bitplanes it uses, even if an icon is defined or not (no more errors from 
pasting a non-defined icon)  Works 3 ways to return Exists, Mask, No mask.


			  SCENES! (mapping)

Create and manipulate huge, very memory efficient levels using maps built
up from icons.  Use the fast and intuitive TURBO PLUS scene editor to create 
your scenes and icon banks, then use TURBO PLUS commands to draw them in 
your programs.  Currently they operate at 2-3 times other package's speed 
(work with PRO! and are getting faster!)  Use several icon banks with 
your scene commands, and multiple scene banks!  Load only part of the
icon bank palette into the current screen if you like!  Define scene 
parameters and have TURBO PLUS slam them on-screen at hyperspeed!  Several
different ways exist to display and move about in your scenes.


			SMOOTH, FAST SCROLLING!

At last AMOS can SMOOTHLY SCROLL!
Imagine defining up to 96 screen zones and scrolling them SMOOTHLY!
Set up as many zones as you like.  Then use Multi Blit start To end to 
scroll them all at once, at TURBO speed!  Or use Blit Int start to end to 
scroll them all at once, under interrupt control!  Your program can 
continue on while the scrolls happen during the vertical blank!
Commands exist to change the speed of a scroll without redefining it, also  
for changing the scrolling zones that are being executed without actually 
stopping the interrupt, for ultra smooth transitions!


			FULL COLOR GRAPHIC TEXT!

TURBO PLUS provides color text support as well!  Use the supplied Font 
Utility to grab fonts from IFF screens in several different ways.  Assign a 
character to print with each graphic element, save the bank and your all set 
to use them in your programs.  Beautiful full color scroll texts can be 
yours, title screens come to life.  

TURBO PLUS comes with lots of demos and a thorough manual.  A full font disk 
is included with the TURBO PLUS system as well, to get your started on your 
way.  

We know you'll love TURBO PLUS for AMOS AND AMOS PROFESSIONAL!  There is 
nothing like it in the world!  If you have any questions
or would like to get a copy contact us at the address below.
		         
This file was released Feb 20, 1994.  If this file is older than a month, 
contact us for features we've added!  We are working on Scene Animation, 
single commands to scroll through scenes, unsorted array searching, FAST 
sequential file reading, REAL TIME 3D vector objects, quick pasting of
one scene into another (like Briks), speed up BOBS, 4 button joystick
commands, scene scanning from a position for a certain icon, or lack of
icon, scene flooding, Proximity Detection (faster collision detection!),
fast ROTATION of BOBs and ICONs, any angle!,  and MUCH more!  We routinely
go through the AMOS commands to make them faster!  Call or write with
MORE suggestions!

NOTHING comes close to TURBO PLUS for both AMOS and AMOS Pro!

CONTACT US NOW! 

             PLAYFIELD!                     The Mr AMOS Club
           PO Box 450884                     8 Magnolia Park   
       Sunrise FL 33345-0884                     Dunmurry
       (305) 846-7969 VOICE                       Befast
        (305) 846-8388 FAX                       BT17 ODS
        (305) 456-0126 BBS                      N Ireland
           AMOS Network                        0232 626694
      International Conference

PLAYFIELD! produces a newsletter entirely devoted to AMOS!  TURBO PLUS 
users are fully supported through PLAYFIELD! and by calling or writing 
any time.  The Mr AMOS Club produces a high quality disk magazine and
fully supports AMOS users throughout the world!
You will not find better support anywhere than PLAYFIELD! and Mr AMOS!

now close this window to enter the TURBO PLUS SCENE EDITOR!
Press HELP at any time!
